References part deux (#26)
DFE-Digital/bat-design-history: app/posts/apply-for-teacher-training/2020-01-20-give-a-reference-iteration.md

---
title: Give a reference iteration

> description:

Reviewer: Post needs a description

tags:
---

## User needs

As a referee
I need to provide a useful reference
So that I can help the candidate with their application and get back to my day as quickly as possible

As a candidate
I need to know that my referee doesn't want to give a reference
So that I can get another referee as quickly as possible to progress my application

## Hypotheses

### Actively refusing to give a reference

Some referees may not want to, or be able to give a reference. This slows down the candidate's application process.

**If** we let users tell us that they won't give a reference
**Then** we'll be able to notify the candidate and get another referee quickly
**We'll know this works when**:
- Referees click the refuse link in the email and confirm their refusal

### One big text box for the reference

> We don't have any evidence that referees and providers need anything more sophisticated or bespoke than a single text box. So for now, we're just keeping parity with UCAS.

Reviewer: Albeit with a smaller box and lower word count

> We're also wary about asking directly if the candidate is safe to work with children. Providers like this, but we feel we need to be careful how we ask this. The absence of the flag might be seen as a bad when really the referee didn't know either way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're wary about asking explicitly if the candidate is safe to work with children. Providers liked this, but we need to be careful how we ask the question. The absence of the flag might be seen as reason alone to reject a candidate when really the referee didn't know either way.
```

We also don't have enough confidence in the 1 to 10 scales, which providers described as ‘subjective’. A single box is the lowest risk.

**If** we let users enter everything into 1 big text box

> **Then** we'll be able to see what problems arise with referees and providers

Reviewer: Maybe: 
We'll know this works when providers successfully use the references given to make decisions
